1 
 1. Introduction  
Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems have become an integral component of 
modern organizations by enabling the seamless integration of business processes, data, and 
information flow across multiple departments. In today’s competitive and fast -paced b usiness 
environment, organizations can no longer operate efficiently using isolated or standalone 
systems. ERP systems address this challenge by providing a unified platform that connects 
finance, operations, administration, and management functions into a  single, coherent 
framework.  
In large enterprises —particularly manufacturing and export -oriented organizations —
the efficiency of operations is heavily dependent on the accuracy, consistency, and availability 
of foundational data maintained within the system. Business activities such a s financial 
accounting, asset management, reporting, and compliance rely on predefined structures and 
reference data. Any inconsistency at this foundational level can lead to cascading errors across 
the organization, affecting productivity, financial accur acy, and strategic decision -making.  
At the core of every ERP system lies master data, which defines the structural blueprint 
of enterprise operations. Master data includes critical information such as organizational units, 
financial groupings, account codes, asset classifications, banking de tails, and user credentials. 
This data is relatively stable but is referenced continuously by transactional processes and 
reporting mechanisms. As a result, master data acts as the backbone of all ERP functionalities, 
ensuring uniform interpretation of inf ormation across departments.  
Poorly managed master data can result in serious organizational issues such as incorrect 
financial statements, duplicate records, operational delays, audit non -compliance, and 
unreliable management reports. Therefore, effective master data management is no t merely a 
technical requirement but a strategic necessity for enterprise governance and operational 
control.   
The ERP Master Module developed in this project aims to address these challenges by 
providing a structured, centralized, and scalable solution for managing critical master data. The 
system is designed using modern software technologies . By establishing a robust master data 
foundation, the project demonstrates how a well -designed ERP master module can significantly 
enhance data integrity, operational efficiency, and overall system effectiveness.  
 
2 
 1.1 Importance Of The Project  
The importance of this project lies in addressing one of the most critical challenges in enterprise 
systems —effective master data management. In ERP environments, master data serves as a 
single source of truth for all business operations. Accurate master d ata ensures consistency 
across departments and enhances the reliability of financial and operational reports.  
This project is significant for the following reasons:  
• Ensures centralized and standardized management of ERP master data  
• Reduces data duplication and minimizes manual errors  
• Improves operational efficiency through structured workflows  
• Supports financial compliance and audit requirements  
• Provides a scalable foundation for future ERP modules  
• Enhances user productivity through a professional and intuitive interface  
The project provides hands -on exposure to enterprise -level system analysis, architectural 
design, database modeling, and full -stack application development.  
1.2 General Organization of the Report  
The report is structured to progress logically from conceptual understanding to implementation 
details, providing a comprehensive guide for readers:  
• Chapter 1 – Introduction: Presents the background, project importance, objectives, and 
organizational context.  
• Chapter 2 – System Analysis: Discusses the limitations of existing systems, problem 
statements, proposed solutions, and system requirements.  
• Chapter 3 – System Design: Explains architecture, database schema, workflows, and 
graphical user interface design principles.  
• Chapter 4 – Project Description: Provides module -wise explanation, functional scope, 
and real -world operational scenarios.  
• Chapter 5 – System Development: Details the technologies, tools, code logic, 
pseudocode, and development methodology. . 
3 
 1.3 Organization Profile  
Ambattur Clothing Company (ACC) is a leading garment manufacturing and exporting 
organization that has established a strong presence in the global apparel industry since its 
inception in 1981. Beginning its operations with a single manufacturing unit, the company has 
grown consistently over the decades into a large -scale enterprise known for producing high -
quality garments for several internationally renowned fashion brands. ACC’s growth journey 
reflects its strategic vision, operational excellence, and unw avering commitment to quality and 
customer satisfaction.  
The organization operates multiple state -of-the-art manufacturing facilities across India, each 
equipped with advanced machinery and modern production technologies. These facilities 
adhere to standardized manufacturing processes and stringent quality contr ol measures to 
ensure uniformity, efficiency, and precision at every stage of production. ACC’s robust 
operational framework enables it to meet international quality standards and maintain long -
term partnerships with global clients.  
ACC’s strong global presence is further reinforced by an extensive supplier and logistics 
network that supports efficient sourcing of raw materials, streamlined production planning, and 
timely delivery of finished products. The company places significant e mphasis on innovation, 
continuous process improvement, and the adoption of best manufacturing practices to remain 
competitive in the international market.  
Beyond operational excellence, Ambattur Clothing Company is committed to sustainability, 
ethical manufacturing, and corporate social responsibility. The organization actively 
implements environmentally responsible practices, promotes employee welfare, and complies 
with international labor and safety standards. These initiatives not only contribute to 
sustainable growth but also strengthen the company’s reputation as a socially responsible 
enterprise.  
As a large -scale manufacturing organization, ACC manages complex business operations 
involving financial structures, asset management, organizational hierarchies, and banking 
relationships. Efficient management of such complexity requires reliable, accurat e, and 
integrated information systems. Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems play a critical 
role in supporting these requirements by enabling centralized data management, improved 
transparency, and effective decision -making.  
4 
 2. System Analysis  
2.1 Problem Definition  
In today’s rapidly growing and complex business environment, the management of ERP 
master data remains a critical challenge for many organizations. Despite its importance, 
numerous enterprises still rely on outdated, semi -manual, or fragmented systems that  lack 
adequate standardization, validation, and centralized control. These legacy systems were 
initially designed to handle limited volumes of data and basic operational needs, which may 
have been sufficient for smaller organizations or simpler processes. However, as organizations 
expand in size, operational complexity, and geographic reach, these systems become 
increasingly inefficient, error -prone, and difficult to maintain. The growing volume of master 
data, coupled with inconsistent or unstructured mana gement practices, frequently leads to 
duplicate records, conflicting classifications, missing information, and increased maintenance 
efforts.  
Master data is the foundation of enterprise operations, defining organizational 
hierarchies, financial groupings, asset categories, supplier and customer profiles, and other 
critical reference points. Inaccurate, inconsistent, or outdated master data can d irectly disrupt 
essential business processes such as accounting, procurement, inventory management, asset 
tracking, reporting, and regulatory compliance. For example, duplicate account codes may 
result in incorrect financial statements, while inconsistent asset classifications can lead to errors 
in depreciation calculations and inventory reporting. Operational delays in production 
planning, procurement approvals, and supply chain execution may also occur, reducing overall 
efficiency.  
Another key limitation of existing systems is the lack of scalability and flexibility. 
Modifying, updating, or restructuring master data often requires extensive manual intervention, 
which not only increases the risk of errors but also consumes significant  time and resources. 
Weak security measures, limited role -based access, and the absence of comprehensive audit 
trails further compound governance and compliance challenges. These issues underscore the 
urgent need for a modern, centralized, and structured E RP master management system that 
ensures accurate, secure, and reliable data, while enhancing operational efficiency, supporting 
informed decision -making, and maintaining regulatory compliance across the organization.  
 
5 
 2.2 Existing System  
Limited automation, rigid structures, and a dependence on individual expertise largely 
characterize the current systems used for ERP master data management . Master data entry and 
maintenance are heavily manual, with minimal system -driven validation or standardization. As 
a result, the accuracy and consistency of the data largely depend on the diligence and expertise 
of the user, rather than on robust automat ed processes. This reliance on manual effort increases 
the likelihood of errors, duplication, and inconsistencies, which can propagate across different 
departments and processes.  
Structurally, the existing system lacks a well -defined hierarchy for managing financial 
and organizational classifications , including  account groups, cost centers, asset categories, and 
unit structures. This absence of structured relationships makes it challenging to maintain 
consistency across departments and results in discrepancies in reporting and operational data. 
For example, inco nsistencies in account codes can lead to mismatched financial reports, while 
unstandardized asset categories may confuse  asset tracking or depreciation calculations.  
From a compliance perspective, the system provides inadequate support for audit trails 
and historical tracking of changes. This deficiency makes verification, reporting, and 
regulatory compliance a time -consuming and error -prone process. In addition, the s ystem’s 
usability is a major concern. The interface is outdated, non -responsive, and unintuitive, which 
hampers efficiency and increases reliance on extensive user training. New employees often 
struggle to navigate the system effectively, resulting in oper ational delays and reduced 
productivity.  
Security is another critical limitation. Weak access controls and the absence of role -
based permissions expose sensitive master data to potential unauthorized modifications. 
Furthermore, the system is not designed to scale with growing business requirement s, limiting 
its ability to accommodate increased data volumes or future integration with advanced ERP 
modules.  
Overall, the limitations of the existing ERP master data management system —ranging 
from poor automation, inconsistent data, and lack of standardization to weak security and 
limited scalability —significantly affect data integrity, operational efficiency, an d compliance 
readiness. These challenges underscore the pressing need for a modern, centralized, and 
structured ERP master management solution , which can provide reliable, consistent, and secure 
master data to support all critical business processes.  
6 
 2.3 Proposed System  
To address the limitations of existing ERP master data management systems, the 
proposed system is a modern, web -based ERP Master Module  that provides a centralized, 
structured, and secure platform for managing all critical master data. Unlike legacy systems, 
this solution emphasizes data accuracy, consistency, scalability, and user -friendliness. The 
system is developed using C# (.NET)  for backend processing, Microsoft SQL Server  for robust 
database management, and React -based frontend technologies  for a res ponsive and intuitive 
user interface. This combination of technologies ensures efficient handling of large datasets 
while providing a smooth user experience.  
The proposed system enforces strict validation rules and relational integrity  to prevent 
duplicate or inconsistent records. For example, when adding a new account, the system 
automatically checks for existing entries and validates all required fields to maintain 
uniformity. A modular architecture  allows each master module —such as organizational units, 
account codes, asset categories, and user management —to be maintained independently, 
facilitating future expansion and easier maintenance. Role -based access c ontrol  ensures that 
only authorized personnel can modify sensitive data, enhancing security. Furthermore, cloud -
based support via Microsoft Azure  enables version control, centralized storage, and easy 
scalability for growing organizational needs.  
Key advantages of the system include a centralized and normalized database , improved 
operational efficiency, accurate reporting, and compliance readiness. The modern, responsive 
interface reduces training time and enhances user productivity.  
Advantages of the proposed system include:  
• Centralized and normalized database  
• Improved data accuracy and consistency  
• Modern, responsive, and user -friendly interface  
• Scalable and maintainable architecture  
• Enhanced security and access control  
• Improved operational efficiency and reporting reliability  
 
7 
 2.4 System Requirements  
The system has specific hardware and software requirements to ensure optimal performance.  
2.4.1 Hardware Requirements  
Processor  Intel i3 or higher  
RAM  Minimum 8 GB  
Storage  256 GB SSD or higher  
Display Resolution  1366 × 768 or above  
 
2.4.2 Software Requirements  
Operating System  Windows 10 / Windows 11  
Backend  C# (.NET)  
Frontend  React, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript  
UI Frameworks  Bootstrap, Reactstrap  
Database  Microsoft SQL Server  
IDE Visual Studio, Visual Studio Code  
Repository & Cloud Platform  Microsoft Azure  
Browser  Google Chrome / Microsoft Edge  
 
 
 
8 
 3. System Design  
3.1 Architectural Design  
The system follows a three -tier architecture consisting of the Presentation Layer, Application 
Layer, and Database Layer. This architecture ensures separation of concerns, improved 
maintainability, and enhanced security.  
3.1.1 Data Flow Diagram  
The following DFD represents the flow of data in the system, showing Login, Main Page, 
Master hierarchy, Bank management, and Unit master interactions.  
1. Login DFD Content (The Gateway)  
This module captures the initial session parameters. The flow ensures that the user is not just 
authenticated by password, but is also mapped to the correct financial context.  
 
• Inputs:  Financial Year, Type, Unit Code, Date of Processing (DOP), Username, and 
Password.  
• Process:  The system validates the User/PSD  against the Staff Master . It then checks if 
the Unit Code  is active and if the DOP  falls within the selected Financial Year . 
• Output:  A valid session token containing the Entity ID  and Unit Code , which acts as a 
global filter for all subsequent master pages.  
 

9 
 2. Main Page & Master Hierarchy DFD Content  
This represents the core organizational structure of your accounting system. The data flow 
follows a strict parent -child dependency.  
 
• Main Group:  The top -level category (e.g., Assets, Liabilities). It captures the Acc 
Source  and Main Group Name . 
• Group:  Inherits the Main Group  ID and adds a specific Group Name . 
• Sub Group:  Inherits both Main Group  and Group  IDs. This is where specific asset 
categories or expense types are defined (including depreciation rates like SLM/WDV 
found in your CSV files).  

10 
 • Account Code Master:  The final destination. It pulls the entire hierarchy (Source → 
Main → Group → Sub) and assigns specific Account Details , Schedules , and 
Nomenclature . 
• Logic:  The Last Code  attribute ensures that the account numbering remains sequential 
within that specific sub -group.  
3. Bank & Unit Master DFD Content  
A. Bank Master (The Financial Data Repository)  
This level captures the static details of the banking institution.  
• Extended Data Points:  Beyond account numbers, it captures IFSC/Swift Codes , Bank 
Branch specific contacts , and Overdraft (OD) Limits . 
• Data Flow:  It receives an Account Code  from the Account Code Master . This creates a 
"Pointer" in the General Ledger so that any transaction involving this bank is 
automatically categorized under the correct accounting head.  
• Validation:  It ensures that no two banks share the same Bank Code  within a single 
EntityID . 
B. Bank Control (The Operational Logic Layer)  
This acts as the "Traffic Controller" for financial operations.  
• Functional Scope:  It manages the User-Bank Mapping . It defines which users have the 
authority to view or process payments for specific accounts.  
• BRS Logic:  It tracks the "Last Reconciled Date." When a transaction occurs, the Bank 
Control layer checks the Active BRS  flag to determine if the transaction requires 
immediate reconciliation or if it can be batched.  
• Flags & Utype:  The Utype  (Usage Type) flag determines if the bank is used for Payroll, 
Vendor Payments, or Petty Cash , ensuring funds are not misallocated.  
C. Unit Master (The Organizational Anchor)  
The Unit Master is the root for all departmental data.  
11 
 • Authorized Signatories:  This module stores the digital identities or reference names of 
personnel authorized to approve vouchers. In the DFD, this flows into the Bill Passing  
and Transaction  modules.  
• Cash Management:  It sets the Cash -in-Hand  ceiling. If a unit attempts to record a cash 
transaction exceeding the Cash Amt  limit defined here, the system triggers a "Control 
Violation" alert.  
• GST & Compliance:  It acts as the central point for Tax Reporting . Since GST is often 
unit-specific (based on location), this master ensures that the correct tax state -code is 
applied to every invoice generated by that specific branch.  
 
 
3.2 GUI Design  
The graphical user interface is designed using React and Reactstrap, ensuring responsiveness 
and consistency. The interface follows ERP standards with structured forms, dropdown 
controls, and tabular data presentation.  
LOGIN: 
 

12 
  
 
 
 

13 
 MAIN GROUP MASTER:  
 
 

14 
  
GROUP MASTER:  
 
 
 

15 
 SUB GROUP MASTER : 
 
 
 
ACCOUNT CODE MASTER:  
 

16 
  
UNIT CREATION  
 
 
 
 
 

17 
 BANK MASTER:  
 
 
 
 
3.3 UML DIAGRAM  
The UML (Unified Modeling Language) structure represents a high -integrity financial 
system where Login sessions are anchored by Financial Year and UnitCode. Data flows through 
a nested hierarchy —from Main Group to Account Master —ensuring strict classificat ion. These 
accounts link to Bank and Unit Masters, governed by Bank Control logic for operational 
compliance.  
 

18 
  
 
Module  Primary Key / Index  Key Attributes for UML  
Login  UserID  Financial Year, UnitCode, 
DOP  
Main Group  MainCode  Acc Source, EntityID  
Group  GroupCode  Parent MainCode, 
GroupName  
Sub Group  SubCateCode  DepnType, DepnRate, 
Category  
Account Master  AccCode  Schedule, Nomenclature, 
LastCode  
Bank Master  BankCode  A/C No, IFSC, Address, Pin  
Bank Control  ControlID  UnitCode, BRS Flag, Utype  
Unit Master  UnitCode  GST No, Cash Limit, Status  
 
 

19 
 3.4 ER DIA GRAM  
 
The ER (Entity -Relationship) architecture establishes a structured data flow beginning 
with Login  authentication, where a user’s session is bound to a specific Financial Year  and 
Unit. This initiates a strictly hierarchical master data tree: Main Groups  define primary 
accounting sources, which cascade into Groups , then granular Sub-Groups  (containing 
depreciation logic), and finally unique Account Codes . 
These Account Codes serve as the bridge to operational entities, linking directly to the 
Bank Master  and Unit Master . Financial integrity is maintained via Bank Control  logic, which 
manages unit -specific bank reconciliations and usage flags, ensuring every transaction aligns 
with systemic compliance and organizational limits.  
 
 

20 
 4. Project Description  
The ERP Master Module is designed as a centralized and comprehensive solution for 
managing core master data essential for enterprise operations. Master data acts as the 
foundation for all ERP functionalities, including finance, asset management, human reso urces, 
procurement, and reporting. By providing a unified platform to create, maintain, and validate 
critical data, the ERP Master Module ensures consistency, accuracy, and integrity across all 
organizational processes.  
The system manages a wide range of master data components, including organizational 
units, account codes, asset classifications, supplier and customer information, banking details, 
and user credentials. Each component is structured hierarchically and valid ated against 
predefined rules, ensuring that data entered into the system adheres to organizational standards 
and avoids redundancy or duplication. This structured approach enables the organization to 
maintain a single source of truth, which is critical fo r operational efficiency and informed 
decision -making.  
The ERP Master Module also establishes the groundwork for integration with future 
ERP modules. For example, finance and accounting modules rely heavily on accurate account 
codes and financial groupings, while asset management modules depend on precise asse t 
classifications and tracking information. Reporting and business intelligence functions are also 
supported by the module, as clean and consistent master data enables accurate analytics, 
compliance reporting, and strategic planning.  
In addition, the module incorporates role -based access control, ensuring that only 
authorized personnel can modify sensitive master data. This enhances security and governance 
while providing audit trails for compliance purposes. The modern, web -based inte rface, built 
using React and Bootstrap, ensures responsiveness, usability, and minimal training 
requirements, allowing employees to efficiently perform their tasks.  
Overall, the ERP Master Module acts as the backbone of the organization’s ERP 
ecosystem. By centralizing, standardizing, and securing master data, it significantly improves 
operational efficiency, reduces errors, supports regulatory compliance, and provide s a scalable 
foundation for future ERP development and business growth.  
 
 
21 
 5. System Development  
The development of the ERP Master Module involved a combination of modern software 
technologies, database systems, and frontend frameworks to ensure a secure, scalable, and user -
friendly solution. The system is designed as a web-based application , providing centralized 
access to master data while maintaining data integrity and operational efficiency across the 
enterprise.  
5.1 Languages and Tools Used  
The backend of the system is developed using C# (.NET) , which offers a robust environment 
for creating scalable, object -oriented applications with strong type -checking and support for 
multi -layered architecture. Microsoft SQL Server  serves as the relational database management 
system, providing a secure, normalized, and efficient structure for storing master data. SQL 
Server ensures data integrity through relational constraints, indexing, and transaction 
management.  
For the frontend, React.js  is utilized to build a responsive, modular, and dynamic interface. 
Combined with HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript , the interface provides interactive forms, 
structured tables, and intuitive navigation. Bootstrap and Reactstrap  frameworks enhance the 
UI design by offering pre -built, responsive components that adhere to modern ERP interface 
standards, reducing development time and improving user experience.  
The system also integrates Microsoft Azure  for cloud -based repository support, enabling 
version control, centralized storage, scalability, and secure remote access. Azure ensures that 
master data can be maintained and accessed reliably across multiple locations while supporting 
future expansion an d integration with additional ERP modules.  
5.2 Development Workflow and Pseudocode  
The development workflow follows a structured approach. The system first initializes  the 
environment and authenticates users through role -based login. Upon successful authentication, 
the dashboard  displays all available master modules. Users can select a module, input relevant 
master data, and submit it. Each entry undergoes validation  against predefined rules to prevent 
duplication, enforce standardization, and maintain relational integrity. Once validated, the data 
is securely stored in the database. If a uthentication fails or validation errors occur, the system 
displays appropriate error messages to guide the user.  
22 
 The pseudocode summarizes this process:  
1) START  
2) Initialize system  
3) Authenticate user 
4) IF authentication successful THEN  
5) Display dashboard  
6) FOR  each  master module  
7) Accept input  
8) Validate  data  
9) Store in database  
10) END  FOR  
11) ELSE  
12) Display error message  
13) END  IF 
14) STOP  
This structured approach ensures that the ERP Master Module provides a reliable, secure, and 
efficient solution for managing enterprise master data, laying a strong foundation for future 
ERP development and operational excellence.  
 
